`HOW_WE_USE_GITHUB.md`: Updates to working with issues, labeling and other general updates (#728)
conda/infrastructure: HOW_WE_USE_GITHUB.md

[infrastructure]: https://github.com/conda/infrastructure
[workflow-sync]: https://github.com/conda/infrastructure/blob/main/.github/workflows/sync.yml
[labels-global]: https://github.com/conda/infrastructure/blob/main/.github/global.yml

<!-- relative URLs -->
[workflow-cla]: /.github/workflows/cla.yml
[workflow-issues]: /.github/workflows/issues.yml
[workflow-labels]: /.github/workflows/labels.yml
[workflow-lock]: /.github/workflows/lock.yml
[workflow-project]: /.github/workflows/project.yml
[workflow-stale]: /.github/workflows/stale.yml
[labels-local]: /.github/labels.yml
[labels-page]: ../../labels

# How We Use GitHub

This document seeks to outline how we as a community use GitHub Issues to track bugs and feature requests while still catering to development practices & project management (_e.g._, release cycles, feature planning, priority sorting, etc.).

<!-- only include high-level topics or particularly noteworthy sections here -->
**Topics:**

  - [What is "Issue Sorting"?](#what-is-issue-sorting)
  - [Issue Sorting Procedures](#issue-sorting-procedures)
  - [Commit Signing](#commit-signing)

>   - [Types of Tickets](#types-of-tickets)
>     - [Standard Ticket/Issue](#standard-ticketissue)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - [Types of Issues](#types-of-issues)
    - [Standard Issue](#standard-issue)
```

    - [Epics](#epics)
    - [Spikes](#spikes)

>   - [Working on Tickets](#working-on-tickets)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - [Working on Issues](#working-on-issues)
```

> **Note**

> > This document is written in the style of an FAQ, for easier navigation use [GitHub's table of contents feature][docs-toc].

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
> This document is written in the style of an FAQ. For easier navigation, use [GitHub's table of contents feature][docs-toc].
```

At its core, sorting enables new issues to be placed into these four categories, which helps to ensure that they will be processed at a velocity similar to or exceeding the rate at which new issues are coming in. One of the benefits of actively sorting issues is to avoid engineer burnout and to make necessary work sustainable; this is done by eliminating a never-ending backlog that has not been reviewed by any maintainers.

There will always be broad-scope design and architecture implementations that the maintainers will be interested in pursuing; by actively organizing issues, the sorting engineers will be able to more easily track and tackle both specific and big-picture goals.

### Who does the sorting?

> Sorting engineers are a conda governance [sub-team][sub-team]; they are a group of Anaconda, Inc. and community members who are responsible for making decisions regarding closing issues and setting feature work priorities, among other sorting-related tasks.

Reviewer: AFAIK the steering council has not voted on such a subteam, so this doesn't exist at the moment.

Also, we shouldn't highlight Anaconda Inc here per se, since the subteam is a community governance group, not related to Anaconda, Inc. Employees may be members of it, but that's coincidental.

```suggestion
Sorting engineers are a conda governance [sub-team][sub-team]; they are a group of community members who are responsible for making decisions regarding closing issues and setting feature work priorities, among other sorting-related tasks.
```

Reviewer: An example proposal for a subteam is here: https://github.com/conda-incubator/governance/issues/81

Reviewer 3: yeah, this text was originally written with the expectation that the subteam would be created "soon", I agree this should be rephrased until then

### How do items show up for sorting?

> New issues that are opened in any of the repositories in the [conda GitHub project][conda-org] will show up in the "Sorting" tab of the [Planning project][project-planning]. There are two [GitHub Actions][docs-actions] workflows utilized for this purpose; [`.github/workflows/issues.yml`][workflow-issues] and [`.github/workflows/projet.yml`][workflow-project].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
New issues that are opened in any of the repositories in the [conda GitHub organization][conda-org] will show up in the "Sorting" tab of the [Planning project][project-planning]. There are two [GitHub Actions][docs-actions] workflows utilized for this purpose; [`.github/workflows/issues.yml`][workflow-issues] and [`.github/workflows/projet.yml`][workflow-project].
```

The GitHub Actions in the [`conda/infrastructure`][infrastructure] repository are viewed as canonical; the [`.github/workflows/sync.yml` workflow][workflow-sync] sends out any modifications to other `conda` repositories from there.

### What is done about the issues in the "Sorting" tab?

Issues in the ["Sorting" tab of the project board][project-sorting] are considered ready for the following procedures:

- Mitigation via short-term workarounds and fixes
- Redirection to the correct project
- Determining if support can be provided for errors and questions
- Closing out of any duplicate/off-topic issues

> The sorting engineers on rotation are not seeking to _resolve_ issues that arise. Instead, the goal is to understand the ticket and to determine whether it is an issue in the first place, and then to collect as much relevant information as possible so that the maintainers can make an informed decision about the appropriate resolution schedule.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The sorting engineers on rotation are not seeking to _resolve_ issues that arise. Instead, the goal is to understand the issue and to determine whether it is legitimate, and then to collect as much relevant information as possible so that the maintainers can make an informed decision about the appropriate resolution schedule.
```

### What is the purpose of having a "Backlog"?

Issues are "backlogged" when they have been sorted but not yet earmarked for an upcoming release.

### What automation procedures are currently in place?

Global automation procedures synced out from the [`conda/infrastructure`][infrastructure] repo include:

- [Marking of issues and pull requests as stale][workflow-stale], resulting in:
  - issues marked as https://github.com/conda/infrastructure/labels/type%3A%3Asupport being labeled stale after 21 days of inactivity and being closed after 7 further days of inactivity (that is, closed after 30 inactive days total)
  - all other inactive issues (not labeled as https://github.com/conda/infrastructure/labels/type%3A%3Asupport) being labeled stale after 365 days of inactivity and being closed after 30 further days of inactivity (that is, closed after an approximate total of 1 year and 1 month of inactivity)

>   - all inactive pull requests being labelled stale after 365 days of inactivity and being closed after 30 further days of inactivity (that is, closed after an approximate total of 1 year and 1 month of inactivity)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  - all inactive pull requests being labeled stale after 365 days of inactivity and being closed after 30 further days of inactivity (that is, closed after an approximate total of 1 year and 1 month of inactivity)
```

- [Locking of closed issues and pull requests with no further activity][workflow-lock] after 365 days
- [Adding new issues and pull requests to the respective project boards][workflow-project]

> - [Indicate an issue ready for the sorting engineer's attention by toggling https://github.com/conda/infrastructure/labels/pending%3A%3Afeedback with https://github.com/conda/infrastructure/labels/pending%3A%3Asupport after a contributor leaves a comment][workflow-issues]

Reviewer 2: This list item's verb tense is out of sync with the others (-ing vs. Indicate).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- [Indicating an issue is ready for the sorting engineer's attention by toggling https://github.com/conda/infrastructure/labels/pending%3A%3Afeedback with https://github.com/conda/infrastructure/labels/pending%3A%3Asupport after a contributor leaves a comment][workflow-issues]
```

> - [Verifying that contributors have signed the CLA][workflow-cla] before allowing pull requests to be merged

Reviewer 2: This one is sort of automatic? There's still a manual component in place for part of it.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- [Verifying that contributors have signed the CLA][workflow-cla] before allowing pull requests to be merged; if the contributor hasn't signed the CLA previously, merging is be blocked until a manual review can be done
```

> - [Syncing out templates, labels, workflows and documentation][workflow-sync] from [`conda/infrastructure`][infrastructure] to the other repositories

Reviewer 2: I would love a serial comma here before the "and".

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- [Syncing out templates, labels, workflows, and documentation][workflow-sync] from [`conda/infrastructure`][infrastructure] to the other repositories
```

Issues that require input from multiple members of the sorting team will be brought up during refinement meetings in order to understand how those particular issues fit into the short- and long-term roadmap. These meetings enable the sorting engineers to get together to collectively prioritize issues, earmark feature requests for specific future releases (versus a more open-ended backlog), tag issues as ideal for first-time contributors, as well as whether or not to close/reject specific feature requests.

### How does labeling work?

Labeling is a very important means for sorting engineers to keep track of the current state of an issue with regards to the asynchronous nature of communicating with users. Utilizing the proper labels helps to identify the severity of the issue as well as to quickly understand the current state of a discussion.

Each label has an associated description that clarifies how the label should be used. Hover on the label to see its description. Label colors are used to distinguish labels by category.

> Generally speaking, labels with the same category are considered mutually exclusive but in some cases labels sharing the same category can occur concurrently as they indicate qualifiers as opposed to types. For example, we may have the following types, https://github.com/conda/infrastructure/labels/type%3A%3Abug, https://github.com/conda/infrastructure/labels/type%3A%3Afeature, and https://github.com/conda/infrastructure/labels/type%3A%3Adocumentation, where for any one issue there would be _at most_ **one** of these to be defined (_i.e._ an issue should not be a bug _and_ a feature request at the same time). Alternatively, with issues involving specific operating systems (_i.e._, https://github.com/conda/infrastructure/labels/os%3A%3Alinux, https://github.com/conda/infrastructure/labels/os%3A%3Amacos, and https://github.com/conda/infrastructure/labels/os%3A%3Awindows), an issue could be labeled with one or more depending on the system(s) the issue occurs on.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Generally speaking, labels with the same category are considered mutually exclusive, but in some cases labels sharing the same category can occur concurrently, as they indicate qualifiers as opposed to types. For example, we may have the following types, https://github.com/conda/infrastructure/labels/type%3A%3Abug, https://github.com/conda/infrastructure/labels/type%3A%3Afeature, and https://github.com/conda/infrastructure/labels/type%3A%3Adocumentation, where for any one issue there would be _at most_ **one** of these to be defined (_i.e._ an issue should not be a bug _and_ a feature request at the same time). Alternatively, with issues involving specific operating systems (_i.e._, https://github.com/conda/infrastructure/labels/os%3A%3Alinux, https://github.com/conda/infrastructure/labels/os%3A%3Amacos, and https://github.com/conda/infrastructure/labels/os%3A%3Awindows), an issue could be labeled with one or more, depending on the system(s) the issue occurs on.
```

Reviewer 2: Just did a comma pass, but I also want to mention that the reading level of this particular paragraph is quite high and might be inaccessible to people with lower English proficiency. I think the examples help, though.

### What labels are required for each issue?

At minimum, both `type` and `source` labels should be specified on each issue before moving it from the "Sorting" tab to the "Backlog" tab. All issues that are bugs should also be tagged with a `severity` label.

The `type` labels are exclusive of each other: each sorted issue should have exactly one `type` label. These labels give high-level information on the issue's classification (_e.g._, bug, feature, tech debt, etc.)

The `source` labels are exclusive of each other: each sorted issue should have exactly one `source` label. These labels give information on the sub-group to which the issue's author belongs (_e.g._, a partner, a frequent contributor, the wider community, etc.). Through these labels, maintainers gain insight into how well we're meeting the needs of various groups.

> The `severity` labels are exclusive of each other and while required for the https://github.com/conda/infrastructure/labels/type%3A%bug label it can also be applied to other types to indicate demand or need. These labels help us to prioritize our work. Severity is not the only factor for work prioritization, but it is an important consideration.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The `severity` labels are exclusive of each other and, while required for the https://github.com/conda/infrastructure/labels/type%3A%bug label, they can also be applied to other types to indicate demand or need. These labels help us to prioritize our work. Severity is not the only factor for work prioritization, but it is an important consideration.
```

> Please review the descriptions of the `type`, `source` and `severity` labels on the [labels page][labels-page] prior to use.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Please review the descriptions of the `type`, `source`, and `severity` labels on the [labels page][labels-page] prior to use.
```

#### Where do work tickets go after being sorted?

Once issues are deemed ready to be worked on, they will be moved to the [`conda` Backlog tab of the Planning board][project-backlog] on GitHub. Once actively in progress, the issues will be moved to the [In Progress tab of the Planning board][project-in-progress] and then closed out once the work is complete.

#### What is the purpose of having a "Backlog"?

Issues are "backlogged" when they have been sorted but not yet earmarked for an upcoming release. Weekly refinement meetings are a time when the `conda` engineers will transition issues from "[Sorting][project-sorting]" to "[Backlog][project-backlog]". Additionally, this time of handoff will include discussions around the kind of issues that were raised, which provides an opportunity to identify any patterns that may point to a larger problem.

#### What automation procedures are currently in place?

Global automation procedures synced out from the `conda/infrastructure` repo include:
- [Marking of issues and pull requests as stale][stale], resulting in:

>   - issues marked as https://github.com/conda/infrastructure/labels/pending%3A%3Asupport being labelled stale after 21 days of inactivity and being closed after 7 further days of inactivity (that is, closed after 30 inactive days total)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  - issues marked as https://github.com/conda/infrastructure/labels/type%3A%3Asupport being labeled stale after 21 days of inactivity and being closed after 7 further days of inactivity (that is, closed after 30 inactive days total)
```

>   - all other inactive issues (not labelled as https://github.com/conda/infrastructure/labels/pending%3A%3Asupport) being labelled stale after 365 days of inactivity and being closed after 30 further days of inactivity (that is, closed after an approximate total of 1 year and 1 month of inactivity)

Reviewer 4: Same here, `labelled` should be spelled `labeled` (if we're sticking with US vs UK spelling)

>   - all other inactive issues (not labelled as https://github.com/conda/infrastructure/labels/pending%3A%3Asupport) being labelled stale after 365 days of inactivity and being closed after 30 further days of inactivity (that is, closed after an approximate total of 1 year and 1 month of inactivity)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- all other inactive issues (not labeled as https://github.com/conda/infrastructure/labels/type%3A%3Asupport) being labeled stale after 365 days of inactivity and being closed after 30 further days of inactivity (that is, closed after an approximate total of 1 year and 1 month of inactivity)
```

  - all inactive pull requests being labelled stale after 365 days of inactivity and being closed after 30 further days of inactivity (that is, closed after an approximate total of 1 year and 1 month of inactivity)
- [Locking of closed issues and pull requests with no further activity][lock] after 365 days
- [Adding new issues and pull requests to the respective project boards][project-workflow]
- [Creation of pull requests to facilitate easier adding of accounts that have signed the CLA][cla] to `.clabot`, following verification procedures

> - [Syncing out of templates, labels, workflows and documentation][workflow-sync] from `conda/infrastructure` to the other conda organization repositories

Reviewer 4: I think it's OK to repeat info/leave this bit here, just in case someone is looking only in a specific section for instructions

Each label has an associated description that clarifies how the label should be used. Hover on the label to see its description. Label colors are used to distinguish labels by category.

Generally speaking, labels with the same category are considered mutually exclusive but in some cases labels sharing the same category can occur concurrently as they indicate qualifiers as opposed to types. For example, we may have the following types, https://github.com/conda/infrastructure/labels/type%3A%3Abug, https://github.com/conda/infrastructure/labels/type%3A%3Afeature, and https://github.com/conda/infrastructure/labels/type%3A%3Adocumentation, where for any one issue there would be _at most_ **one** of these to be defined (_i.e._ an issue shouldn’t be a bug _and_ a feature request at the same time). Alternatively, with issues involving specific operating systems (_i.e._, https://github.com/conda/infrastructure/labels/os%3A%3Alinux, https://github.com/conda/infrastructure/labels/os%3A%3Amacos, and https://github.com/conda/infrastructure/labels/os%3A%3Awindows), an issue could be labeled with one or more depending on the system(s) the issue is occurring on.

> Please note that there are also automation policies in place that are affected by labelling. For example, if an issue is labeled as https://github.com/conda/infrastructure/labels/pending%3A%3Asupport, that issue will be marked https://github.com/conda/infrastructure/labels/stale after 21 days of inactivity and auto-closed after seven more days without activity (30 inactive days total), which is earlier than issues without this label. See [What automation procedures are currently in place?](#what-automation-procedures-are-currently-in-place) for more details.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Please note that there are also automation policies in place that are affected by labeling. For example, if an issue is labeled as https://github.com/conda/infrastructure/labels/pending%3A%3Asupport, that issue will be marked https://github.com/conda/infrastructure/labels/stale after 21 days of inactivity and auto-closed after seven more days without activity (30 inactive days total), which is earlier than issues without this label. See [What automation procedures are currently in place?](#what-automation-procedures-are-currently-in-place) for more details.
```

Issues are "backlogged" when they have been sorted but not yet earmarked for an upcoming release. Weekly Refinement meetings are a time when the `conda` engineers will transition issues from "[Sorting][project-sorting]" to "[Backlog][project-backlog]". Additionally, this time of handoff will include discussions around the kind of issues that were raised, which provides an opportunity to identify any patterns that may point to a larger problem.

### Issue Sorting Procedures

### How are issues sorted?

Issues in the ["Sorting" tab of the project board][project-sorting] are reviewed by issue sorting engineers, who take rotational sorting shifts. In the process of sorting issues, engineers label the issues and move them to the other tabs of the project board for further action.

> Issues that require input from multiple members of the sorting team will be brought up during a weekly Refinement meeting in order to understand how those particular issues fit into the short- and long-term roadmap of `conda`. These meetings enable the sorting engineers to get together to collectively prioritize issues, earmark feature requests for specific future releases (versus a more open-ended backlog), tag issues as ideal for first-time contributors, as well as whether or not to close/reject specific feature requests.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
Issues that require input from multiple members of the sorting team will be brought up during a weekly refinement meeting in order to understand how those particular issues fit into the short- and long-term roadmap of `conda`. These meetings enable the sorting engineers to get together to collectively prioritize issues, earmark feature requests for specific future releases (versus a more open-ended backlog), tag issues as ideal for first-time contributors, as well as whether or not to close/reject specific feature requests.
```

That's not a proper noun 😉 . We can leave it lower case.

Generally speaking, labels with the same category are considered mutually exclusive but in some cases labels sharing the same category can occur concurrently as they indicate qualifiers as opposed to types. For example, we may have the following types, https://github.com/conda/infrastructure/labels/type%3A%3Abug, https://github.com/conda/infrastructure/labels/type%3A%3Afeature, and https://github.com/conda/infrastructure/labels/type%3A%3Adocumentation, where for any one issue there would be _at most_ **one** of these to be defined (_i.e._ an issue shouldn’t be a bug _and_ a feature request at the same time). Alternatively, with issues involving specific operating systems (_i.e._, https://github.com/conda/infrastructure/labels/os%3A%3Alinux, https://github.com/conda/infrastructure/labels/os%3A%3Amacos, and https://github.com/conda/infrastructure/labels/os%3A%3Awindows), an issue could be labeled with one or more depending on the system(s) the issue is occurring on.

> Please note that there are also automation policies in place. For example, if an issue is labeled as https://github.com/conda/infrastructure/labels/pending%3A%3Afeedback and https://github.com/conda/infrastructure/labels/unreproducible, that issue will be auto-closed after a month of inactivity.

Reviewer 3: This isn't correct. Any issue labeled as https://github.com/conda/infrastructure/labels/type%3A%3Asupport is closed after a month of inactivity.

Reviewer 5: Maybe it would be useful to link to the GitHub action that actually contains the logic for all this?

Author: OK, so I'm getting from this that:
- regardless of any other label, all issues labelled [type::support](https://github.com/conda/infrastructure/labels/type%3A%3Asupport) will be closed after a month of inactivity, and
- we have additional labels that might be optionally used to indicate why the issue needs support, but this document shouldn't mention them.

Please confirm if this understanding is correct.

Reviewer 5: @kalawac, after reading through the GitHub workflow we have defined to determine this, it looks like `type::support` are first labeled "stale" after 21 days of inactivity. Once they have been "stale" for 7 days, they are then closed.

Reference: https://github.com/conda/infrastructure/blob/main/.github/workflows/stale.yml#L23-L36

Regarding the second question, issue sorters are free to use whatever other labels they deem necessary. I don't think it's worth mentioning here though.

> Please note that there are also automation policies in place. For example, if an issue is labeled as https://github.com/conda/infrastructure/labels/pending%3A%3Afeedback and https://github.com/conda/infrastructure/labels/unreproducible, that issue will be auto-closed after a month of inactivity.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
Please note that there are also automation policies in place. For example, if an issue is labeled as https://github.com/conda/infrastructure/labels/pending%3A%3Afeedback or https://github.com/conda/infrastructure/labels/unreproducible, that issue will be auto-closed after a month of inactivity.
```

I these don't need to be both be present (i.e. it's possible to only use the `pending::feedback` label).

#### What labels are required for each issue?

At minimum, both `type` and `source` labels should be specified on each issue before moving it from "`Sorting`" to "`Backlog`". All issues that are bugs should also be tagged with a `severity` label.

The `type` labels are exclusive of each other: each sorted issue should have exactly one `type` label. These labels give high-level information on the issue's classification (e.g., bug, feature, tech debt, etc.)

The `source` labels are exclusive of each other: each sorted issue should have exactly one `source` label. These labels give information on the sub-group to which the issue's author belongs (e.g., a partner, a frequent contributor, the wider community). Through these labels, the conda organization hopes to gain insight into how well we're meeting the needs of various groups.

> The `severity` labels are exclusive of each other and should only be used when the `type::bug` label is also applied. These labels help us to prioritize our work. Severity is not the only factor for work prioritization, but it is an important consideration.

Reviewer 5: Let's not restrict this to `type::bug`. I think we could easily add severity labels to documentation and feature request. In this case, the would describe how adversely the user is affected by the absence of something (e.g. if I had this feature, I wouldn't have to always use this annoying work-around solution).

Reviewer 3: So `severity::*` is required for `type::bug` but can optionally be used elsewhere?

We may need to update the severity label descriptions to outline this since they are currently written with only bugs in mind

> Please review the descriptions of the `type`, `source` and `severity` labels in  `conda/infrastructure`'s [`.github/global.yml` file][labels-global] prior to use.

Reviewer 3: We dont want to point users to the config file. Instead point them to the labels page each repo has. The descriptions render nicely there.

https://github.com/conda/infrastructure/labels

- `[category::topic]`
- `[category::topic-phrase]`

This syntax helps with issue sorting enforcement, as it helps to ensure that sorted issues are, at minimum, categorized by type and source.

There are a number of labels that have been defined for the different `conda` projects. In order to create a streamlined sorting process, label terminologies are standardized using similar (if not the same) labels.

#### How are new labels added?

> New **global** labels (_i.e._, generic labels that apply equally to all `conda` repos) can be added to the `conda/infrastructure`'s [`.github/global.yml` file][labels-global]; new **local** labels (_i.e._, labels specific to particular `conda` repos) can be added to each repository's [`.github/labels.yml`][labels-local] file. All new labels should follow the labeling syntax described in the "How are new labels defined?" section of this document. Global labels are synced out to all repositories as part of the [workflow sync][workflow-sync] process.

Reviewer 3: The global labels config file is not synced out, they're just aggregated with any local labels when we run the sync labels workflow.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
New **global** labels (_i.e._, generic labels that apply equally to all `conda` repos) can be added to the `conda/infrastructure`'s [`.github/global.yml` file][labels-global]; new **local** labels (_i.e._, labels specific to particular `conda` repos) can be added to each repository's [`.github/labels.yml`][labels-local] file. All new labels should follow the labeling syntax described in the "How are new labels defined?" section of this document. Global labels are combined with any local labels and these aggregated labels are used by the `.github/workflows/labels.yml` workflow to synchronize the labels available for the repository.
```

</pre>

> **Warning**

> > Apply the https://github.com/conda/infrastructure/labels/off-topic label to these tickets before closing them out.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> Apply the https://github.com/conda/infrastructure/labels/off-topic label to these issues before closing them out.
```

</pre>

> **Warning**

> > Apply the https://github.com/conda/infrastructure/labels/off-topic label to these tickets before closing them out.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> Apply the https://github.com/conda/infrastructure/labels/off-topic label to these issues before closing them out.
```

</details>

In order to not have to manually type or copy/paste the above repeatedly, note that it's possible to add text for the most commonly-used responses via [GitHub's "Add Saved Reply" option][docs-saved-reply].

## Commit Signing

For all conda maintainers, we require commit signing and strongly recommend it for all others wishing to contribute to conda
related projects. More information about how to set this up within GitHub can be found here:

- [GitHub's signing commits docs][docs-commit-signing]

> ## Types of Tickets

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Types of Issues
```

> ### Standard Ticket/Issue

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Standard Issue
```

TODO

### Epics

TODO

### Spikes

#### What is a spike?

> "Spike" is a term that is borrowed from extreme programming and agile development. They are used when the **outcome of a ticket is unknown or even optional**. For example, when first coming across a problem that has not been solved before, a project may choose to either research the problem or create a prototype in order to better understand it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
"Spike" is a term that is borrowed from extreme programming and agile development. They are used when the **outcome of an issue is unknown or even optional**. For example, when first coming across a problem that has not been solved before, a project may choose to either research the problem or create a prototype in order to better understand it.
```

Additionally, spikes represent work that **may or may not actually be completed or implemented**. An example of this are prototypes created to explore possible solutions. Not all prototypes are implemented and the purpose of creating a prototype is often to explore the problem space more. For research-oriented tasks, the end result of this research may be that a feature request simply is not viable at the moment and would result in putting a stop to that work.

> Finally, spikes are usually **timeboxed** however given the open source/volunteer nature of our contributions we do not enforce this on our contributors. When a timebox is set, this means that we are limiting how long we want someone to work on said spike. We do this to prevent contributors from falling into a rabbit hole they may never return from. Instead, we set a time limit to perform work on the spike and then have the assignee report back. If the tasks defined in the spike have not yet been completed, a decision is made on whether it makes sense to perform further work on the spike.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Finally, spikes are usually **timeboxed**. However, given the open source/volunteer nature of our contributions, we do not enforce this for our contributors. When a timebox is set, this means that we are limiting how long we want someone to work on said spike. We do this to prevent contributors from falling into a rabbit hole they may never return from. Instead, we set a time limit to perform work on the spike and then have the assignee report back. If the tasks defined in the spike have not yet been completed, a decision is made on whether it makes sense to perform further work on the spike.
```

#### When do I create a spike?

A spike should be created when we do not have enough information to move forward with solving a problem. That simply means that, whenever we are dealing with unknowns or processes the project team has never encountered before, it may be useful for us to create a spike.

In day-to-day work, this kind of situation may appear when new bug reports or feature requests come in that deal with problems or technologies that the project team is unfamiliar with. All issues that the project team has sufficient knowledge of should instead proceed as regular issues.

#### When do I not create a spike?

Below are some common scenarios where creating a spike is not appropriate:

- Writing a technical specification for a feature we know how to implement
- Design work that would go into drafting how an API is going to look and function
- Any work that must be completed or is not optional

> ## Working on Tickets

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Working on Issues
```

> ### How do I assign myself to a ticket I am actively reviewing?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### How do I assign myself to an issue I am actively reviewing?
```

> If you do **not** have permissions, please indicate that you are working on an issue ticket by commenting on the issue. Someone who has permissions will assign you to the ticket. If two weeks have passed without a pull request or an additional comment requesting information, you may be removed from the issue and the issue reassigned.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you do **not** have permissions, please indicate that you are working on an issue by leaving a comment. Someone who has permissions will assign you to the issue. If two weeks have passed without a pull request or an additional comment requesting information, you may be removed from the issue and the issue reassigned.
```

> If you are assigned to an issue but will not be able to continue work on it, please comment to indicate that you will no longer be working on it and press `unassign me`, next to your username in the `Assignees` section of the issue page (top right).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you are assigned to an issue but will not be able to continue work on it, please comment to indicate that you will no longer be working on it and press `unassign me` next to your username in the `Assignees` section of the issue page (top right).
```
